earthworx, llc

Professionals in Site Survey and GIS


About Us

Earthworx, LLC is a Geodetic Survey and Geographic Information System (GIS) company located in Chattanooga, TN, providing land survey services, topographic and hydrographic survey and mapping services, and GIS mapping and database development.

Earthworx, LLC, formerly Brackett Construction Services/Southern Surveying, began operations in 1986 and was founded primarily to assist in site preparations for construction projects. Earthworx has grown into a multi-faceted firm that employs a wide variety of geodetic disciplines. Specialties include architectural and engineering design services , GIS development and facility management, survey grade GPS and GIS mapping, construction field surveys, construction field inspections, hydrographic and topographic survey and mapping services, high definition scanning (HDS), wetlands delineation and mitigation design.


Our Services

The mission of Earthworx, LLC is to offer the highest quality services to clients in the most timely and cost effective manner possible. Accuracy and efficiency are best achieved by employing experienced and highly trained, motivated individuals. The staff at Earthworx exceeds this standard and is ready to assist with any project ranging from residential surveys to large engineering projects.


Traditional Surveying and Mapping Services

Each surveying project is planned and executed with the unique nature of the site and scope of work in mind. Our surveying crews and professionals give close attention to the details needed to ensure that every project is performed accurately and thoroughly. The surveyors you retain are your eyes on the ground, and are usually the first to see your site. We have the experience and technical expertise to give you the data needed to complete your project and offer professional opinions to guide you through this important phase of your development or project. With global positioning satellites (GPS), Earthworx surveying technicians are able to determine the state plane grid coordinates and elevations at any given location. For topographic services, this data is recorded and mapped to show existing surface breaks and structures in the landscape, and to determine elevation differences within a specified boundary. For bathymetric (underwater) purposes, this data is used in conjunction with multi‐beam sonar to map the underwater landscape of specified areas. In both cases, the information obtained in these surveys is an important tool for any research, design, or construction project.

Traditional Surveying and Mapping Services Include:
land boundary surveys
topographic surveys
bathymetric surveys
construction staking
site grading layout and utility construction staking
residential and commercial subdivisions
survey-grade GIS mapping
precision machine alignment
flood elevation certificates
route and easement surveys
expert testimony in boundary dispute cases
as-built surveys


High Definition Surveying

High definition surveying (HDS) is the state of the art three-dimensional (3D) digital capture of geospatial data. HDS technology produces 3D point data, or “point clouds”, that can be translated and viewed as a virtual “walk through” of the subject site. HDS data is far more accurate and can be collected more quickly than traditional assessment methods. Precision from HDS survey data can be achieved to the thousandths of a foot which will decrease variances and change orders, and reduce or eliminate the need for site revisits.

No other method of surveying produces the richness of HDS data. HDS data is used for energy analysis, long-term facility asset management, building information modeling (BIM), industrial plant mapping, various types of retrofits, architectural adaptive use and re-use, historic preservation, historic and environmental conservation, security planning, forensics, geotechnical, mining, tunnels, and other applications. HDS data can be integrated with aerial photography and mobile/airborne (LiDAR) data.


Geographic Information Systems

A Geographic Information System (GIS) consists of data that is spatially referenced to the earth, along with computer hardware and software and the people that make it work. GIS involves the capturing, editing, analyzing, manipulating, storing, querying, and displaying of geographically linked information. Different data layers can be symbolized and labeled on a map, allowing the GIS user to visually recognize what’s going on at a particular location or distinguish overall patterns in the data on a larger scale. GIS technology is used in areas such as resource management, urban planning, cartography, and asset inventory management, just to name a few. With expertise in GIS consulting, training, application development, spatial data analysis systems administration, cartography, and utilities mapping, the GIS team at Earthworx is available to service all long‐term and short‐term GIS related tasks.

GIS Services Include:
geodatabase design and development
survey-grade infrastructure mapping and attribute collection
database maintenance
custom map-making and printing
web-based access to GIS data
sanitary and storm system inventories/surveys


Geology, Biology and Other Services

The wetlands staff at Earthworx has the technical and regulatory knowledge to meet the needs for wetland identification, evaluation, and delineation. Earthworx has an extensive background in conducting wetland mitigation design and banking, and determination or regulatory jurisdiction.

Geology, Biology and Other Services Include:
water quality appeals
NPDES permits
stormwater pollution prevention plans (SWPPP) and certified inspections
design for LEED certification


Get In Touch

Please fill out the form below to send us an email and we'll get back to you as soon as possible.
